# How to

Assortment of "How to xxx" I want to remember.


## C64 disk drive commands

[How to](c64diskcmds) manage in C64 disk drive.
The DOS (Disk Operating System) built into the drive.


## How to fix the RESTORE key on the C64

On the older C64 you really have to quickly hammer that key.
Here is an instruction [how to](c64RESTOREkey/readme.md) fix that.


## How to map keys for BMC64

I made a bare-metal-C64 using a Raspbery Pi and a small USB keyboard.
I wanted a mapping that is close to the original C64 layout.
The [BMC64 KBD](c64-bmc64kbd) explains how I did that.


## How to use the SID of the Commodore 64?

Writing a UI to control the SID registers, and using the VICE tools
to extract the BASIC program to PC, see [c64sid](c64sid).


## How to use the compare instruction of the 6502?

I was writing some assembly on the 6502 in the C64 (ok the 6510)
and tripped over the compare function.
Why doesn't that [work](c64cmp)?


## Commodore 64 user defined functions

A rarely used feature of the C64 is the user defined function `FNF(X)`.
Article [c64functions](c64functions) studies how to use them.


## Commodore 64 memory partitioning

Can we partition the C64 memory, storing two programs simultaneously?A multi-app setup?
No multitasking, we activate one, run it, activate another and run it.
The howto [c64mempart](c64mempart) explains it.


## Commodore 64 characters

How are [C64 chars](c64chars) organized?


## Solving the Quadro puzzle

How to solve the [Quadro](Quadro) puzzle - by analysis.


## ESP web flash

How to [flash](ESPwebflash) an ESP32 without installing the Arduino IDE or 
Espressif's IDF (IoT Development Framework).


## Commodore 64 USR() function

How to make the `USR()` function work. Plus, as bonus, a return-to-TMP easily.
See [c64usr](c64usr).


## Gemini

Most of the questions I asked Gemini and the likes (ChatGPT) did not lead to a satisfactory answer.
Marc gave me a puzzle, and this time Gemini did not let me [down](Gemini8princesses).


## Commodore 64 string storage

How does the C64 store strings. Section [C64strings](C64strings) explains this.


## Commodore 64 drives

The 1541 disk drive for the commodore 64 is "smart".
This [how to](c64drive) explains what that means.


## Remapping keys in VICE

I was playing with VICE the C64 (Commodore 64) emulator.
In Turbo Macro Pro, the `←` key is used extensively, so I wanted to remap that to an easy key.
See [how to](ViceKeyboardRemap/readme.md) do that yourself.


## Get a map file in Arduino for ESP

Getting a map for ESP in Arduino is "easy"; it is generated by default.
The correct question is where to find it.
We can also tell Arduino to store it in a place where we can find it more easily.
See [how](ESP-map-file/readme.md).


## Use the Arduino CLI

Arduino had an IDE (v1.8), which started to feel outdated.
Then came the IDE v2.0 with syntax highlighting and (still not working) integrated debugger.
But now there is also a Command Line Interface.
How does that [work](Arduino-CLI/readme.md)?


## Arduino library naming

How should I name an Arduino library, so that it fits well in the Arduino IDE.
Some [notes](ArduinoLibraryNaming/ArduinoLibraryNaming.md).


## Iterators and generators

An [article](https://github.com/maarten-pennings/Lego-Mindstorms/tree/main/ms4/multitask/iteratorstudy) about what iterators and generators are, using Python.
An excellent [article](https://btmc.substack.com/p/implementing-generators-yield-in) of how to implement generators in C. I was wondering if setjmp/longjmp would work/help here?


## How to do animations in HTML
A small set of animation demos in html.
See [html-animation](html-animation/readme.md) for soure and demo.


## How to create a Python Virtual environment and use a local package
This [pythonpackage](pythonpackage/readme.md) is an empty 
python application which uses an empty package,
all in a virtual environment.


## Using ESP SPI slave without SSEL
I needed to connect an SPI mastering sensor to an ESP32S3.
The sensor does not have an SSEL, which is a no-go for ESP.
I tried various [solutions](spitest), but **failed** - an "how not to".


## SPI modes
SPI communication knows much more variation than e.g. I2C.
This [how to](SPImodes/readme.md) looks at the four modes induced
by CPOL (default clock state) and CPHA (data valid phase).


## Using Windows' symbolic links to manage Arduino Libraries
The Arduino IDE is a bit poor in managing (files of) bigger projects.
The [LinkedLibrary howto](LinkedLibrary/readme.md) explains how you can use Windows' `mklink` to
share libraries but store them in the same repository as the using applications.


## Debugging and ESP32S3 using Arduino IDE
It took many tries, but I have the debugger in the Arduino IDE
running on the ESP32S3-DevKitC-1 board (without any probe).
See [DebuggingESP32S3Arduino](DebuggingESP32S3Arduino/DebuggingESP32S3Arduino.md).


## PWM on ESP32
Project [esp32pwm](esp32pwm/readme.md) shows how to use PWM on an ESP32, 
with an exponential curve and a transistor to drive a high power LED.


## Control an 128x64 LCD screen
I was given an 128x64 LCD module from POWERTIP ("PG12864WRF"). It uses an NT7108 as controller.
Took quite some time to get it [running](NT7108-12864LCD/NT7108-12864LCD.md).


## Drag and drop in HTML
For an example and explanation see [drag-n-drop-html](drag-n-drop-html/readme.md).
Or see it in [action](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/maarten-pennings/howto/blob/main/drag-n-drop-html/drag-n-drop-html.html).


## Wide serial plotter on Arduino 2.0
The Serial Plotter in Arduino 2.0 has a too narrow x-axis. That can be patched wider.
For an example and explanation see [arduino2.0-wideplot](arduino2.0-wideplot/arduino2.0-wideplot.md).


## SNR
Computing the signal to noise ratio [SNR](snr/snr.md) of a series of measurements.


## NodeMCU power architecture
The NodeMCU board (ESP8266, ESP32) have several pins related to power.
See [NodeMCU-power-architecture](NodeMCU-power-architecture/NodeMCU-power-architecture.md) for an explanation of the pins.


## Open drain on an ESP32
Unlike traditional Arduino boards, the ESP32 allows configuring its GPIO pins as open drain. 
For an example and explanation see [esp32-opendrain](esp32-opendrain/esp32-opendrain.md).


## Fast GPIO writes on an ESP32
Set or clear ESP32 GPIO pins via direct register access; this is much faster than via the Arduino API.
For an example and explanation see [esp32-fast-gpio](esp32-fast-gpio/esp32-fast-gpio.md).


## Fast GPIO writes on an ATMEGA
Set or clear ATMEGA GPIO pins via direct register access; this is much faster than via the Arduino API.
For an example and explanation see [atmega-fast-gpio](atmega-fast-gpio/atmega-fast-gpio.md).


(end)
